Functional Monitoring documentation update (1 of 5) (#50)
mulesoft/docs-functional-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/afm-create-monitor.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You create monitors via the Functional Monitoring UI or by uploading test suites written in BAT, a Behavior Driven Development (BDD) language. Both methods enable you to create tests against one or more endpoints, and to create test schedules that run at specified intervals. 

This procedure describes creating monitors via the Functional Monitoring UI.

== Before You Begin

> * Ensure that your user ID has the Anypoint Monitoring User permission and that it has been assigned the Exchange Administrators role. An administrator for your organization can grant this permission in Anypoint Access Management. For details, see xref:access-management::roles.adoc[Roles].

Reviewer: simple present tense
```suggestion
* Ensure that your user ID has the Anypoint Monitoring User permission and that it is assigned the Exchange Administrators role. An administrator for your organization can grant this permission in Anypoint Access Management. For details, see xref:access-management::roles.adoc[Roles].
```

> * Determine which endpoints to test and the REST methods that test them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Determine which endpoints to test and by which REST methods to test them.
```

* Determine the expected return status codes.
* Determine the test interval.
+

> The shortest interval is fifteen minutes. Monitors can also run hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. The schedule begins immediately after creating the monitor, and you can modify the schedule after the monitor has been created. For example:

Reviewer: In general, we spell out single-digit amounts but use digits in mixed single-digit and multidigit contexts.
We use numerals for all _values_ (as opposed to _amounts_: a subtle distinction sometimes).

** Set an hourly schedule to start at a certain number of minutes after the hour begins.

> ** Set a daily, weekly, or monthly schedule to start at a certain time of day.

Reviewer: These seem clear to me. Maybe use them throughout?

Author: I addressed the lack of clarity elsewhere, so I think we're good.

== Procedure
To create a monitor:

. Click *Create Monitor* in the *Functional Monitoring* section of Anypoint Monitoring.
. Under *Step 1 - Setup the monitor*, specify a monitor name. Additionally, toggle *Validate SSL Certificate* to specify if the monitor needs to use self-signed certifications.

> . Tap the *Step 2 - Select endpoints* tab.

Reviewer: We typically use "click" instead of "tap."

> . Populate the fields with the information gathered in "Before you Begin".

Reviewer: Periods and commas go inside quotation marks, unless what is inside those marks can be mistaken for including the comma (like syntax or similar).
```suggestion
. Populate the fields with the information gathered in "Before You Begin."
```

+

> You can preview the test by tapping *Run now* under *Preview the result of your monitor*.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for "tap" and replace.
Up to this point, we have limited our UI verbs to "click" to initiate, "select" for menu or list choices, "check" and "uncheck" for checkboxes, and "toggle" for toggles.
Isn't "tap" a mobile-app verb?

. Tap the *Step 3 - Set notifications* tab.
. Optionally configure a notification.
. Click *Create Monitor*.

> == Result

Reviewer: Ditto what I said in a previous edit about this as a subhead.

The *Monitor Detail* view includes the following actions:

* Tap *Run* (image:afm-ui-run-button.png[width=1%,height=1%]) to immediately execute a monitor.
* Tap *View Monitor History* (image:afm-ui-history-button.png[width=1.3%,height=1.3%]) to view a list of recent monitor runs.

> * Tap *More* (image:afm-ui-more-button.png[width=0.75%,height=0.75%]) followed by *Edit Monitor* to modify a monitor.

Reviewer: In addition to using "click" instead, consider ">" instead of "followed by":
```suggestion
* Click *More* (image:afm-ui-more-button.png[width=0.75%,height=0.75%]) > *Edit Monitor* to modify a monitor.
```

* Tap *More* (image:afm-ui-more-button.png[width=0.75%,height=0.75%]) followed by *Download Monitor* to download a monitor as BAT source.

> * Tap *More* (image:afm-ui-more-button.png[width=0.75%,height=0.75%]) followed by *Delete Monitor* to delete a monitor.

Reviewer: Ditto.

Additional displayed information includes:

* The most recent test duration
* Time elapsed since the monitor started running

> * The average response time for each activity (for example, DNS lookup), separated by day

Reviewer: Maybe "per day"? "separated by day" might be confused by nonnative readers or someone not familiar with the common phrase "separated by commas."

Author: Good point. Though in this case, it's referring to prominent UI table rows. Each row represents a day, so I'm thinking it might be appropriate to say that they are "separated by day".

* The previous five test execution results, as indicated by *PASSED* or *FAILED* (depending on if the endpoints returned expected codes)

> * A table with the current test schedules

Reviewer: "with" > "displaying"?

> * Each endpoint asserted with its HTTP method

Reviewer: Is "asserted" the correct jargon? Just checking....

Author: Hey, yup it's a concept that is used throughout the UI.

Return to the homepage by tapping *Back to Monitors*.

[NOTE]
====

> Tests silently fail when run time exceeds 120 seconds. As a workaround, download the monitor and split the tests across multiple monitors via the BAT CLI. Run and time each test to ensure their running times are under 120 seconds, then upload the monitors.

Reviewer: Avoid using ", then" alone as a conjunction:
```suggestion
Tests silently fail when run time exceeds 120 seconds. As a workaround, download the monitor and split the tests across multiple monitors via the BAT CLI. Run and time each test to ensure their running times are under 120 seconds, and then upload the monitors.
```
OR
```suggestion
Tests silently fail when run time exceeds 120 seconds. As a workaround, download the monitor and split the tests across multiple monitors via the BAT CLI. Run and time each test to ensure their running times are under 120 seconds; then, upload the monitors.
```

> Alternatively, to run a monitor more than 120 seconds download the monitor and run it from the BAT CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, to run a monitor for more than 120 seconds, download the monitor and run it from the BAT CLI.
```
